README.md, before:

# slrp

> Make the node command line great again

</br>

## Getting Started

```bash
npm install -g @kcpaulsen/slrp
```

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'x => x.split(" ")' [0].length

# 6
```

## Chaining Functions

slrp allows for chaining results of one function to another.

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'x => x.split(" ")' 'x => x.map(word => word.length)'

[
  6,
  5
]
```

You can also use the property assessor shorthand for easier manipulation

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'x => x.split(" ")' [0].length

# 6
```

Manipulate the stdin as a string

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'x => x.replace(/o/gi, "0")'

# Hell0, W0rld
```

Use Custom functions (like lodash/fp) for easier commands (See Custom Functions)

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'split(" ")' 'map(size)' sum

# 11
```

## Flags

slrp provides multiple flags for easier one-liners

`-j`

slurp stdin string into parsed object.

```bash
  curl pants.rip/echo | slrp -j .

  {
    "reqCookies": {},
    "url": "/",
    "params": {},
    "body": {},
    "query": {},
    "reqHeaders": {
      "host": "pants.rip",
      "x-real-ip": "136.60.239.136",
      "x-forwarded-proto": "https",
      "x-forwarded-for": "136.60.239.136",
      "x-forwarded-host": "136.60.239.136",
      "connection": "close",
      "user-agent": "curl/7.58.0",
      "accept": "*/*"
    },
    "resHeaders": {
      "x-powered-by": "Express"
    }
  }
```

`-n`

split stdin into array of strings by newline

```bash
  echo -e "Hello\nWorld" | slrp -n [0]

  # Hello
```

`-w`

split stdin into array of strings by whitespace

```bash
  echo -e "Hello World" | slrp -w [1]

  # World
```

`-f`

slurp file path and use as stdin

```bash
  slrp -f 'path/to/file/here' 'x => someFunctionHere()'
```

`-s`

Silence, or suppress automatic printing of result. Useful for side-effect one-liners,
or controlling printing yourself

```bash
echo "Just me" | slrp -s 'x => console.log(x)'

# Just me!
```

`-e`

Execute sequence of commands without stdin. Usefull for side-effect one-liners


```bash
slrp -e '() => console.log("No stdin!")'

# No stdin!
```

## Custom Functions

You can include custom functions to be imported / required as part of slrp.
Any functions installed globally by npm, and included in the config file will be available

* Add to $HOME/.config/slrp/index.js

```
module.exports = {
  globalFunctions: {
    ...require('lodash/fp'),
  }
}
```

## About

Heavily inspired by fx and other node command line utilities

Commit message:

Add documentation for in-place edit

README.md, after:

# slrp

> Make the node command line great again

</br>

## Getting Started

```bash
npm install -g @kcpaulsen/slrp
```

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'x => x.split(" ")' [0].length

# 6
```

## Chaining Functions

slrp allows for chaining results of one function to another.

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'x => x.split(" ")' 'x => x.map(word => word.length)'

[
  6,
  5
]
```

You can also use the property assessor shorthand for easier manipulation

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'x => x.split(" ")' [0].length

# 6
```

Manipulate the stdin as a string

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'x => x.replace(/o/gi, "0")'

# Hell0, W0rld
```

Use Custom functions (like lodash/fp) for easier commands (See Custom Functions)

```bash
echo "Hello, World" | slrp 'split(" ")' 'map(size)' sum

# 11
```

## Flags

slrp provides multiple flags for easier one-liners

`-j`

slurp stdin string into parsed object.
(See property assessor shorthand for easy access and manipulation)

```bash
  curl pants.rip/echo | slrp -j .

  {
    "reqCookies": {},
    "url": "/",
    "params": {},
    "body": {},
    "query": {},
    "reqHeaders": {
      "host": "pants.rip",
      "x-real-ip": "136.60.239.136",
      "x-forwarded-proto": "https",
      "x-forwarded-for": "136.60.239.136",
      "x-forwarded-host": "136.60.239.136",
      "connection": "close",
      "user-agent": "curl/7.58.0",
      "accept": "*/*"
    },
    "resHeaders": {
      "x-powered-by": "Express"
    }
  }
```

`-n`

split stdin into array of strings by newline

```bash
  echo -e "Hello\nWorld" | slrp -n [0]

  # Hello
```

`-w`

split stdin into array of strings by whitespace

```bash
  echo -e "Hello World" | slrp -w [1]

  # World
```

`-f`

slurp file path and use as stdin

```bash
  slrp -f 'path/to/file/here' 'x => someFunctionHere()'
```

`-s`

Silence, or suppress automatic printing of result. Useful for side-effect one-liners,
or controlling printing yourself

```bash
echo "Just me" | slrp -s 'x => console.log(x)'

# Just me!
```

`-e`

Execute sequence of commands without stdin. Usefull for side-effect one-liners


```bash
slrp -e '() => console.log("No stdin!")'

# No stdin!
```

`-i`

In place editing of files. Can also create a backup file by suppling an argument to `-i`.


```bash
slrp -i .bak -f test-file.txt '() => "I'll be added to the file" '

# inside test-file

  "I'll be added to the file"

# inside test-file.txt.bak

  // whatever text was originally in the file


slrp -i -f test-file.txt '() => "I'll be added to the file without a backup" '

# inside test-file

  "I'll be added to the file without a backup"

# No stdin!
```

## Custom Functions

You can include custom functions to be imported / required as part of slrp.
Any functions installed globally by npm, and included in the config file will be available

* Add to $HOME/.config/slrp/index.js

```
module.exports = {
  globalFunctions: {
    ...require('lodash/fp'),
  }
}
```

## About

Heavily inspired by fx and other node command line utilities
